---
layout: post
title:  "Grunt! Jekyll Plugins! Oh, my!"
date:   14-12-15 12:22:35
categories: blog
---

I did a major overhaul of this blog over the weekend, and since I've recently been writing loads of raw HTML and CSS recently, I decided to use some front-end tools to see how they worked.

## Style overhaul with LESS

I wrote the style from scratch using less. Since the site is simple – the main CSS file is only 100 lines long – I didn't use a CSS framework. The result? Less didn't help that much.

Maybe I simply don't understand the correct way to use LESS, but the only LESS specific thing I did was create variables for the colors of my color palette. Other than that, it's plain old CSS.

##JEKYLL PLUGINS!?

Yep. These are actually pretty neat. I can [view github file sources](https://github.com/bwillis/jekyll-github-sample) (code from my Koona compiler):
{% highlight ruby %}
{% github_sample charles-l/koona/blob/master/lib/compiler.rb %}
{% endhighlight %}
{% github_sample_ref charles-l/koona/blob/master/lib/compiler.rb %}

I also wrote a script to generate a YAML file with recent projects that Jekyll can then convert into HTML, rather than using JavaScript to create the list dynamically.

Blog post dates are now relative. Not for any particular reason, just because it's cool.

## CoffeeScript
I'm definitely going to use Coffescript again, as it managed to make working with JavaScript a little nicer (even though I just used CoffeScript for the Gruntfile). I find JavaScript as a language, pretty crappy. I even find the syntax ugly, even though I like C a lot (the reason being that, even though they share a similar syntax, C has a completely different coding style).


## Grunt

Grunt is essentially Ruby's rake and bundler for Node. Since I'm using Jekyll, and have access to all the Ruby gems avalaible, I really didn't find it that helpful. There are loads of plugins for Grunt, but Ruby has lots of gems that essentially do the same thing. For my blog, I used a Less compiler, CSS minifier, Jekyll plugin and shell plugin (to shell out and run Ruby code. What a hack).

I'll most likely switch it out with Rake sometime in the future, but for now: meh...

What I've learned:

* Jekyll is awesome
* Coffeescript is awesome
* Grunt is meh, unless you're a node developer
* I don't get less.
* Front end design takes forever.
* I'm now going to go write some Go code. o/
