---
layout: post
title: asus t100 and linux
date:   2015-05-13 09:43:29
---

Linux support on the Asus T100 is currently pretty bad. It does run, but there are a lot of loopholes you have to jump through to get it to a working state. Unless you're an experience Linux user, I wouldn't recommend following this guide.

What's supported out of the box:
- Touchscreen
- Keyboard
- Hard Disk (with newer versions of the kernel)

What's supported with a little extra configuration:
- WiFi

What's not supported (more on them later):
- Sound
- Synaptic trackpad (it does work as a regular mouse, though)
- GPIO buttons (other than the hardwired power button)
- Backlight
- Accelerometer
- Battery

The easiest way to boot Linux is to install [rEFInd](www.rodsbooks.com/refind) and select your USB on boot. The alternative is fiddling with the Windows EFI settings, but if you plan on dual-booting, it's easiest to go with rEFInd.

The biggest reason it's difficult to install Linux on this device is because it uses 32-bit EFI, despite running a 64-bit processor. Unless your distro comes with a 32-bit EFI bootloader, you'll need to build it and manually put it on your installation media. I used a 32-bit build of GRUB and put it in the `/boot/EFI` directory of a live Arch Linux USB.

When you select Linux from the rEFInd menu on boot, it'll drop you into a GRUB recovery shell. From here, you'll be able to select the USB device to boot:

    > linux (hd0)/arch/boot/x86_64/vmlinuz-linux archisolabel=ARCH_052014
    > initrd (hd0)/arch/boot/x86_64/initramfs-linux.img
    > boot

From here, you can install Linux. Some things to bear in mind when installing:

1. The main drive is `/dev/mmcblk0`. `/dev/sdb` is unwritable and contains a readonly recovery version of Windows.
2. Make sure you install a recent version of the kernel to have the hardware support you need.
3. If you need wireless, *YOU CANNOT RELY ON THE INTERNAL BROADCOM CARD DURING INSTALLATION*, you'll need an external wireless adapter.

If you've successfully installed Linux, congrats! That's pretty much all there is to it.

---

<strike>The internal Broadcom BRC403241 chip is not well supported. You can get the firmware from the `linux-firmware` repo, but it doesn't contain the nvram configuration which means you still can't see the device. If you want, you can try messing around with [reverse-engineered nvram files](www.github.com/jfwells/linux-asus-t100ta). That'll make the device appear and available to connect to a WiFi network. However, at it's best, the connection lasts for only a few MB of data, then disconnects. There's no solution currently.</strike>

**EDIT May 15 2015:** If you install the `linux-ck` from Arch Linux AUR, the wireless is stable enough that it works as the only wireless card. I had a blip when I was using it where it refused to connect, but after rebooting it came back.

The trackpad can move the mouse, but the kernel doesn't detect it as a synaptic device so it doesn't support multitouch.

As for the sound, backlight, battery and GPIO buttons, I still have to investigate them more thoroughly to see if they aren't supported by extra kernel configuration (I'm just going with Arch's Vanilla Kernel at the moment, which has a surprising amount of kernel support).

Overall, I can use it as a work machine that is nice on the go. In tablet mode, it's becoming more useful (because of the wireless now works)

---

**UPDATE**: I've given up trying to get Linux working. The Broadcom drivers are despicable, and there's no way to make the T100 connect to wifi reliably. I've installed Android-x86 on it, which does make the wireless a lot better. However, it still has lots of issues (screen doesn't fully shut off, hardware acceleration crashes the browser so it's impossible to watch videos and plenty of other issues). I ended up buying a Samsung Chromebook for about the same price, and run Linux on it with Crouton.
