---
layout: post
title:  "Grunt! Jekyll Plugins! Oh, my!"
date:   14-12-15 12:22:35
categories: blog
---

I did a major overhaul of this blog over the weekend, and since I've recently been writing loads of raw HTML and CSS recently, I decided to use some front-end tools to see how they worked.

## Style overhaul with LESS

I wrote the style from scratch using less. Since the site is simple – the main CSS file is only 100 lines long – I didn't use a CSS framework. The result? Less didn't help that much.

Maybe I simply don't understand the correct way to use LESS, but the only LESS specific thing I did was create variables for the colors of my color palette. Other than that, it's plain old CSS.

##JEKYLL PLUGINS!?

EDIT: Welp... GitHub doesn't like me and doesn't allow me to use Jekyll plugins, and I can't build the site locally and just have GitHub host it. :(

I also wrote a script to generate a YAML file with recent projects that Jekyll can then convert into HTML, rather than using JavaScript to create the list dynamically.

## CoffeeScript
I'm definitely going to use Coffescript again, as it managed to make working with JavaScript a little nicer (even though I just used CoffeScript for the Gruntfile). I find JavaScript as a language, pretty crappy. I even find the syntax ugly, even though I like C a lot (the reason being that, even though they share a similar syntax, C has a completely different coding style).


## Grunt

Grunt is essentially Ruby's rake and bundler for Node. Since I'm using Jekyll, and have access to all the Ruby gems avalaible, I really didn't find it that helpful. There are loads of plugins for Grunt, but Ruby has lots of gems that essentially do the same thing. For my blog, I used a Less compiler, CSS minifier, Jekyll plugin and shell plugin (to shell out and run Ruby code. What a hack).

I'll most likely switch it out with Rake sometime in the future, but for now: meh...

What I've learned:

* Jekyll is awesome
* GitHub doesn't allow Jekyll plugins :(
* Coffeescript is awesome
* Grunt is meh, unless you're a node developer
* I don't get less.
* Front end design takes forever.
* I'm now going to go write some Go code. o/
